Refer to the change log for recent news.

Changes in 2.5.20 2010-01-31 11:08:20 Graham Williams
-----------------------------------------------------

The weather dataset disappeared - restore it.


Changes in 2.5.19 2010-01-30 10:33:50 Graham Williams
-----------------------------------------------------

This is mainly minor tweaking and bug fixing.

Turn translations off for MS/Windows until the RGtk2 package is
updated to 2.12.18. Michael Lawrence is adding a binding to
rgtk2_bindtextdomain so that under MW/Windows we can get Glade to also
access the right libraries for internationalisation. Works just fine
under Linux.

The weather dataset is being cleaned up and made more complete, to
capture data from more weather stations in Australia.


Changes in 2.5.18 2010-01-23 12:13:45 Graham Williams
-----------------------------------------------------

Bug fix - left unwanted print statements. Need to pay more attention
to John Chambers!


Changes in 2.5.17 2010-01-22 22:41:05 Graham Williams
-----------------------------------------------------

Some minor fixes.

More work on translations, particularly the user interface elements
through the glade file.


Changes in 2.5.16 2010-01-22 12:11:25 Graham Williams
-----------------------------------------------------

Summary of recent changes, as reported to the rattle-user group at
Google groups.

This version includes: 

A move from sampling into just two datasets to the more traditional 
three datasets: Train/Validate/Test. The Train dataset is used as 
before for building models. The Validate is used to measure the 
performance of the model and then for the user to tune the model 
building parameters, to build the next "better" model, etc. The Test 
dataset is then a true hold out dataset (not used at all in the 
process otherwise) so a better unbiased estimate of error is obtained. 
The user can now specify partitions as 70/15/15, or 50/25/25, etc. Or 
70/30 (or just 70) to get previous behaviour (i.e., only a Train/Test 
dataset). 

Ongoing markup of all text messages within Rattle to support 
translations to other human languages. The framework for this is 
already in place now, and some sample but limited translations are 
available. For example, on GNU/Linux (at least), try: 

> Sys.setenv(LANGUAGE="ja") 
> library(rattle) 
> rattle() 

for some Japanese translations. Offers to translate to other languages 
are most welcome. 

An initial implementation of biclustering under the Cluster tab. 
Biclustering looks for the best clustering of subsets of the data. It 
subsets both the observations and the variables. Only very basic 
support for now, but the interface will grow to provide choice in the 
algorithm used and options associated with each algorithm. The clara 
algorithm for clustering is also expected to be supported soon. See 
http://bm2.genes.nig.ac.jp/RGM2/pkg.php?p=biclust and 
http://www.statistik.uni-dortmund.de/useR-2008/slides/Kaiser+Leisch.pdf 

Experimental support for conditional trees and conditional random 
forests using the party package. Conditional trees and forests are 
newer approaches to building decision trees and address various bias 
issues. See http://journal.r-project.org/archive/2009-2/RJournal_2009-2_Strobl~et... 

Survival modelling. 

Direct read of an Excel spreadsheet on MS/Windows. On the Data tab, 
the CSV option is now labelled Spreadsheet. Identify a .xls or .xlsx 
file, and Rattle will read the data from the spreadsheet. This is 
still experimental. If it gets used I'll improve it. Currently, only 
the first sheet is loaded, and only if it is called Sheet1 (the 
default), and only if the data starts in row 1. 

Tooltips re-enabled for GNU/Linux. Most users will now be using new 
versions of the GTK libraries. The older version was having issues 
with tooltips on GNU/Linux. 

Improved PMML support. Togaware also provides modules to export PMML 
models as standalone C code - this is not open source yet (it will be 
eventually). The functionality is commercially available as part of 
the RStat offering through Information builder's WebFocus product, and 
from Togaware. PMML models can also be depoyed on the Amazon cloud 
through Zementis' offerings. 

Experimental support for ggplot2. This is a little hidden for now, 
but a pointer for future development. 

See the old change log for more history.